# ZeroGLA
ZeroGLA: Gradient Leakage Attacks against Zeroth-Order Federated Learning

## Abstract

Zeroth-order optimization (ZO) has recently emerged as a promising gradient-free training paradigm for federated learning (FL), offering reduced communication overhead and potential privacy benefits. However, the vulnerability of ZO-based FL to gradient leakage attacks remains largely unexplored. In this paper, we introduce ZeroGLA, the first gradient leakage attack specifically designed for zeroth-order federated learning. ZeroGLA reconstructs private client data using only the scalar-valued gradient queries generated by local function evaluations along random perturbation directions and the ground truth labels. We propose a novel reconstruction objective function that minimizes the $\ell_2$ distance between these observed directional gradient scalars and the gradient projections of the reconstructed sample along the same directions. This formulation effectively adapts existing inversion techniques to the zeroth-order setting. Under a realistic threat model with known labels and batch statistics, ZeroGLA recovers high-fidelity images from ZO updates. Extensive experiments on ImageNet demonstrate that ZeroGLA significantly outperforms prior inversion attacks (e.g., DLG, IG, FGLA) under equivalent conditions. Our results reveal that even gradient-free FL can leak sensitive data, highlighting the need for tailored defenses in zeroth-order federated systems.

## Simple Usage

Set up the environment by running the following command:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Reconstruct 2 batches of images using ZeroGLA algorithm:

```
python zero_gla_main.py --exp_name="zgla-exp" --dataset="imagenet" --reconstruct_num=10 --batch_size=2
```

To test other algorithm, you can add --algorithm="fgla" or "stg" or "ig" or "dlg" in the above command. In addition, you should Download generator weights file [gen_weights.pth](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1x6KIpGXJARc9F0SMZUyTDy3h5-CQRIaR/view?usp=sharing) and place it in folder `./data/` to implement FGLA algorithm. Or train another generator:

```
python train_generator.py --exp_name="my_train_exp"
```
